SIT102 Introduction to Programming  T1 Test 1

Test 1

Programming is a foundational skill in computing, and it is important to
understand this well before progressing to other units. The tests enable you to
demonstrate that you have achieved the required knowledge and skills.
Tip
Do not worry overly about the tests. If you have achieved the learning goals from
the previous pass tasks you will have no trouble in completing this test. Your
seminar tutors will also provide live demonstrations of the practice test questions
to help you prepare, so be sure to attend.

Test 1:

    ñ will take place in Week 5,
    ñ will cover concepts from P2-P4,
    ñ is closed book,
    ñ you will have up to 90 minutes to complete it,
    ñ answers must be in the Hand Execution format taught here,
    ñ this test is intended as a practice; if you fail the test you will be given a

         chance to fix your mistakes.

Complete the following:

1. Sit the test in Week 5

Campus Students:
    ñ Must attend their campus at the scheduled day, to complete the test on
         paper. Look at the Class Timetables and see `Assessment 1' for the day,
         time, and room number, and ensure you have enrolled into a session

                                    Page 1 of 4
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  T1 Test 1

    via the STAR system. You will hand your completed test to your
    supervising tutor.
ñ Remember to bring your student ID card and writing material to the test.

Online Students:
    ñ Your test will be available online for completion at home. You will have a
         48-hour window to complete it, starting on the same day as the Campus-
         based students. Information on how to access the test will be emailed
         closer to the test date.
    ñ You can complete it on paper (then take a scan/photo), or on your
         computer (with a drawing/writing program).

2. Engage with Feedback

You will receive feedback after completing the test via task T1 on OnTrack. When
you receive feedback, your tutor will indicate if your test is Complete, or you have
aspects you need to Fix and Resubmit. There are different things you need to
undertake, depending on the status of the task:

    ñ Complete: You have demonstrated competency with all tested concepts;
         well done! You do not need to sit this test again. Focus on your remaining
         tasks.

    ñ Fix and Resubmit: Great effort; you are close to complete. You should
         attend your next seminar to receive your test back, where you can review
         your results. You will be given a supplementary test to complete (via task
         T1 on OnTrack).

    ñ Redo: Your answers indicate that you need to revise part of the unit. You
         should attend your next seminar to receive your test back, where you can

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 4
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  T1 Test 1

review your results. You will be given a supplementary test to complete (via
task T1 on OnTrack) a few days afterwards.

3. Frequently Asked Questions

Do I need to submit something for task T1 on OnTrack, and what does the
start date and due date mean?

There is nothing to submit for task T1. Instead, task T1 is where you will get
feedback on the outcome of your test (e.g. Complete, Resubmit or Redo), and
additional comments from your assessor.

You can ignore the start date and due date of Task T1 Ù most important is to
ensure that you know what date Test 1 has been scheduled for (per our
instructions above), and complete the test on that date.

What if I fail or miss Test 1?

You will receive constructive feedback on your answers and have the opportunity
to fix them. If you miss Test 1, there is no chance to resit, but you will given a
chance to complete a supplementary test instead (you will receive instructions
within task T1 on OnTrack on how to access it).

What if I fail or miss Test 2?
You will have the chance to resit the test in Week 10, and one more time in Week
11. Failure to complete Test 2 to a satisfactory level means that you may not be
eligible to receive a passing grade for the unit.

What if I cannot complete the test on the day/time scheduled?

                                    Page 3 of 4
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  T1 Test 1

The assessment requirements were clearly communicated to all students in the
SIT102 Handbook, the SIT102 Unit Guide, and by your tutors at the beginning of
the trimester. Expected is that all students can make appropriate arrangements
to be available.

I am a Campus student, but can I take the Online test instead?
No, if you are enrolled as a Campus student, you must complete the test on
campus.

Must I get 100% on the test to pass it?

Not necessarily. We want to see that you understand the concepts well. If you
make minor mistakes but overall the answer is correct and understandable, it is
likely we will accept it.

                                    Page 4 of 4
