SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P2 Building and Running

First steps: Building and Running

Before you start to create your own programs, you need to learn how they are
built and run. In this task, your aim is to learn how to setup your computer with
the tools to build software, and how to use these to build and run programs from
supplied code.
Key aspects include:

    À Starting to see how to picture a program, using the digital reality metaphor.

Show us that you can:

         À Build and run C# programs, when given the program's code:
             o Use the terminal to create a folder for the project
             o Create the project using the dotnet tool and add packages
             o Edit the code in VS Code
             o Build and run the program from the terminal in VS Code

         À Build and run C/C++ programs, when given the code:
             o Create a cpp file to store the code
             o Edit the code in VS Code
             o Compile and run at the terminal in VS Code

         À Capture your learning in the Learning Journey section. Include evidence
             (screenshots) of your progress, and your thoughts on what you
             accomplished, what challenges you faced, and what you found
             interesting.

         À Provide sincere reflections in the Reflection section. Don't just tell us
             what you did, tell us what you learned. Reflections that are brief or
             shallow may not be accepted.

Complete the following:

         1. Download and open the template from OnTrack.

                                                          Page 1 of 3
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P2 Building and Running

         2. Start by reviewing the steps in the Installation overview within the V1
             Programmers Guide to get VS Code and SplashKit installed. Make sure
             to capture this in your learning journey.

Problems with installation?

Visit the SIT102 Teams channel where there is a Setting-Up Discussions channel ¡
in there is a handy video to watch and a troubleshooting guide.

         3. Follow the Guided Tour in Chapter 3 Building Programs ¡ make sure to
             add this to your learning journey.

         4. You should have enough to submit... but if you want to explore this
             further, skim over the first few chapters for context, and to see more
             about using the terminal.
                  a. Part 0: First Steps ¡ get an idea of how the material is organised.
                  b. Part 0 - Chapter 1: Digital Realities ¡ think about what programs
                      are.
                  c. Part 0 - Chapter 2: Computer Use ¡ explore terminal commands
                      in depth.
                  d. Part 0 - Chapter 3: Building Programs ¡ read about what is
                      happening with compiling and running.

Feeling a bit lost?

No problem at all! Your tutors are experts and would love to assist. Please reach
out during your seminars (you can attend as many seminars as you like) or write
a message on the SIT102 Teams channel.

         5. Complete your submission ¡ complete the summary and related
             activities in the template.

         6. Upload to OnTrack and engage with feedback to get this complete!

                                    Page 2 of 3
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P2 Building and Running

Available Resources

We have many resources to assist in your learning journey ¡ if you are ever unsure
then please reach out to us, we are always happy to help.

    À The SIT102 Teams channel ¡ an active learning resource with weekly
         announcements from the Unit Chair, and regular discussions/assistance
         from the SIT102 teaching team and students.

    À Seminars ¡ you can attend both on-campus and online sessions, and join
         as many as you like each week. Your tutors will provide demonstrations and
         assistance to help guide your learning.

    À HelpHubs ¡ there are sessions hosted nearly everyday, both on-campus
         and online providing one-on-one assistance from a tutor. Please join as
         many as you like.

    À PASS sessions ¡ running every week, these sessions are run like a study
         group, hosted by a past SIT102 student.

For more information about the above resources please speak to your tutor or
visit the SIT102 Teams channel.

Caution: Acceptable use of Artificial Intelligence

It is acceptable to use AI to improve your style, as you would be using a spell
checker to improve your spelling. Do not ask an AI to write the summary for you:
this is cheating because it does not demonstrate that you understand anything.

                                    Page 3 of 3
