SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P1 Learning Plan

Learning Plan

This task helps connect you with the unit, its assessments, and the planning
necessary to achieve your target grade outcomes.

Show us that you can:

    · Plan out how you will engage with the unit, with dates highlighted in the
         learning plan timeline.

    · Reflect on your current knowledge and your goals in the unit.

Complete the following:

    1. Download the template from the OnTrack resources - review the template
         carefully and complete the responses.

    2. Upload to OnTrack once ready. Login to OnTrack and mark the task as
         Ready for Feedback. Upload the required files and reflect on what you
         learned.

    3. Engage with feedback received from your tutor.
To get the task Complete, you need to engage with the feedback you receive. Your
tutor will review your submission and may ask you to clarify aspects of the task or
include aspects you have missed.
Remember, a `Resubmit' status is not a bad thing; your tutor is just trying to help
improve your understanding and your results. You have not lost any marks. Work
with your tutor and your final portfolio will achieve a higher final score as a result.
In this way, a `Resubmit' is a good thing!
When you do resubmit, make sure to include a comment that describes how you
have addressed the feedback you received. This needs to demonstrate how you
have addressed all the aspects indicated by your tutor in their feedback on your
learning.

                                                                                                Page 1 of 14
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P1 Learning Plan

Tip: Engage with your tutors!

To succeed in this unit you must engage with your tutors. Interact with them
during seminars and on the SIT102 Teams channel. Read and respond to feedback
received on your OnTrack submissions.

                                    Page 2 of 14
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P1 Learning Plan

Task in Detail

Programming is foundational to computer and data science, artificial intelligence,
cyber security, and software engineering. Through this unit you will learn how
computers work and how to get them to do anything you want. Your success here
ensures that you will have the knowledge and skills to succeed throughout your
future studies. This makes introductory programming the most important
building block in any computing degree, and a valuable skill for any profession.

In this unit you can determine which grade you are aiming to achieve, and we will
work with you to help you achieve it.

Focus and Unit Learning Goals

To complete this unit, you need to demonstrate that you can do the following:

    · ULO 1: Evaluate procedural program code for correct use of coding
         conventions and use code tracing and debugging techniques to identify and
         correct issues.

    · ULO 2: Design, develop, and test procedural programs using specified
         programming languages to achieve defined program goals, including
         effective use of data types, programming statements, control flow
         structures and modularisation techniques.

    · ULO 3: Explain the principles of structured procedural programming, using
         appropriate terminology and by relating these principles to programming
         syntax and structures developed.

    · ULO 4: Analyse, critique the quality, and reflect upon a portfolio of artefacts
         to justify the achievements of specified objectives and goals with evidence.

Through the unit you will create a portfolio of tasks that shows you have these
capabilities and reflect on your achievement of these at the end of the unit.

                                    Page 3 of 14
SIT102 Introduction to Programming                                        P1 Learning Plan

Meaning of grades

Different grades require you to demonstrate different skills.

Pass                     Credit                   Distinction             High Distinction

Can work through         Can effectively utilise  Can work with little    Can work in a proactive,
structured resources to  feedback to develop      direction, with the     self-directed manner,
iteratively develop      their understanding      persistence and         and demonstrates a
understanding. Has a     and pays attention to    adaptability needed to  degree of passion or
foundational             detail to ensure         overcome challenges in  inventiveness in their
understanding of         solutions work as        building larger         work. Has the capability
programming.             expected. Has a good     solutions. Has the      to conceptualise, design
                         understanding of         capability to design    and build elegant and
                         programming, and how     and build programs      sophisticated programs.
                         to program.              independently.

When you complete all the tasks up to your target grade, you know that you have
demonstrated the required skills and will receive the indicated grade at the end
of the unit. You can change your target grade at any point.

The meaning of each grade is described below. It relates to the type of tasks you
will be working on at that grade level. It also indicates how you should approach
the unit and manage your time if targeting that grade.

                                                                          Page 4 of 14
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P1 Learning Plan

Pass: Has a foundational understanding of
programming

Through the pass tasks you will develop an
understanding of the basic programming tools
and how to apply them to simple problems.

If you aim for a pass, you will be demonstrating that you can apply these tools and
concepts to create small programs but not that you are able to create more
complex programs yourself or fully understand how programs work.

If you choose to target a pass grade, you will have more time to spend on the pass
tasks as you will not have to complete other tasks. However, achieving only a pass
may make future computing units more challenging. Building a solid foundation
here will be important for you.

Make sure you let your tutor know why you have chosen to target this grade. If
the reason is that you believe you will struggle with this unit, they will support
your learning as best they can, and maybe, even change your target and achieve
a credit or higher.

                                    Page 5 of 14
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P1 Learning Plan

Credit: Has a good understanding of programming, and how to program

The credit tasks will ask you to think deeply about
the concepts learned and how they relate to each
other, so you really understand how things work.
This will give you the opportunity to put into
practice the concepts learned and ensure that you
really know how they work together.

If you aim for credit, you will be demonstrating that you understand how
programs work, and that you can draw the necessary parts together to build
programs with some guidance.

If you choose to target a credit grade, you will have more time to spend on the
pass and credit tasks as you will not have to complete higher-grade tasks. Make
sure you let your tutor know why you have chosen to target this grade so they can
provide you with the support you need.

                                    Page 6 of 14
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P1 Learning Plan

Distinction: Has the capability to create
programs independently

The distinction tasks will ask you to create
larger programs and give you the freedom to
determine what these programs do. You will
scope, design, code, and test these programs, working independently to create
programs to meet specified requirements.

If you aim for a distinction, you will be demonstrating that you understand how
programs work and can independently design and develop a program.

If you choose to target a distinction grade, you will have less time to spend on the
pass and credit tasks as you will need that learning to tackle the distinction tasks.
Make sure you keep track of your time and plan ahead to ensure you can
complete all the required tasks. Let your tutor know why you have chosen to
target this grade so they can provide you with the support you need.

                                    Page 7 of 14
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P1 Learning Plan

High distinction: Has the capability to build
elegant and sophisticated programs.

The high distinction tasks will ask you to
demonstrate high levels of programming
competency in your custom program, and your
ability to incorporate concepts and tools you have learnt independently. The
instructions are open-ended so you have lots of freedom on what you can do.

If you aim for a high distinction, you will be demonstrating that you understand
what programming can do, can independently find resources to support
programming efforts, and are growing in your capability to build large, elegant,
and sophisticated software solutions.

If you choose to target a high distinction grade, you will have less time to spend
on the pass and credit tasks as you will need that learning to tackle the higher-
grade tasks. Make sure to communicate with your tutor about your plans for the
high-distinction task and discuss it with them.

                                    Page 8 of 14
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P1 Learning Plan

Feedback

Feedback provides you guidance on how to improve. With OnTrack, you receive
feedback from your tutor for each task submitted before its due date. Tutor
feedback will include if there are things that you need to address or questions
they have about your understanding. When you address the feedback, the task
will be marked as Complete.

Getting the tasks marked as Complete in OnTrack is your way of knowing you will
get the grade you are aiming for. If all the tasks are Complete ­ you already know
your grade before submitting your portfolio!

You are encouraged to submit tasks early. This is important because you may
need to take feedback in and resubmit.

Showing that you can receive and respond to feedback will help improve your final
grade, and this process will help you learn. Ensure you make the most of the
feedback dialogue and don't be scared to ask questions!

                                    Page 9 of 14
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P1 Learning Plan

Learning with others

Learning with others in this unit is not only promoted but expected. Learning with
peers through asking for help, supporting others, or sharing your learning, has
many benefits for all involved, such as social support and encouragement.

However, you need to be careful to avoid collusion when working with others!

What is collusion? Copying or letting someone copy your work ­ even if it is in
small amounts. For that reason, when you help others or ask help from others,
ensure the conversation focuses on explanations of how things work, how to do
things, or how to think about addressing the task, rather than providing answers.

What is plagiarism? You are free to use learning resources to assist your learning.
This includes the Programmers.Guide, online resources, and even AI tools like
ChatGPT. However, all submitted work must be entirely your own. You cannot
copy or use any code directly ­ they are only to be used to help you understand
topics, and not to complete work for you. Evidence of submitted code that has
been copied from external sources is a very serious offence, and will result in
penalties such as failing the task or even failing the entire unit. If ever in doubt,
please speak with your tutors, and browse Deakin's AI-Use Guides.

                                    Page 10 of 14
SIT102 Introduction to Programming             P1 Learning Plan

Timelines

Tutors will regularly provide feedback and check tasks. We aim to provide you with
feedback within five business/working days. Again, you only receive feedback if
the task is submitted by its due date.

If you are aiming for a higher grade, you need to work ahead of these times to fit in
the subsequent tasks. The following table provides suggested submission dates.
You can use this to help plan your time.

Task                                   Suggested Week Due by Grade

P1 Learning Plan                       Pass Credit Distinction HD
P2 Building and Running
P3 Sequence and Data                   1   1   1   1
P4 Control Flow
P5 Progress checkpoint                 1   1   1   1
T1 Test 1 (run in week 5)
P6 C / C++                             2   2   2   2
P7 Structuring code
P8 Structuring data                    4   4   3   3
P9 Working with multiples
D2 Custom Program Plan                 4   4   4   4
T2 Test 2 (run in week 9, 10, and 11)
                                       5   5   5   5
         - hurdle to pass subject
C1 Indirect Access                     5   5   4   4
C2 Another Language - Python
D3 Deep Dive Memory                    7   6   5   4
C3 Classes and Objects
D4 Custom Program Implementation       8   7   5   5
D1 Active Collaborator
H1 Something Awesome                   9   8   6   5
P10 Learning Summary
                                       -   -   6   6

                                       9   9   9   9

                                       -   9   8   7

                                       -   10  9   8

                                       -   -   9   8

                                       -   11  10  9

                                       -   -   11  10

                                       -   -   11  11

                                       -   -   -   11

                                       11  11  11  11

                                                  Page 11 of 14
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P1 Learning Plan

Test 1 and Test 2

There are two tests that you need to sit as part of your portfolio. Test 1 occurs in
week 5, and Test 2 occurs between weeks 9 and 11. These are required learning
activities in your timetable, so ensure you are allocated appropriately.

Campus Students

If you are enrolled on campus for your course, you will sit these tests at the
indicated location in your timetable. The test will be conducted on paper (so bring
along a pen/pencil). No other material will be permitted.

Online Students

You will sit an online version. Afterwards, Test 2 requires a short interview with a
tutor in which you must demonstrate an adequate level of understanding for the
task to be marked as complete. Details on this process will be communicated to
all students.

For online interviews, you need to ensure you have a working microphone and
camera, and adequate network bandwidth for clear communication.

Don't Stress

Test 1 and 2 are only checking that you have a good understanding of the essential
content. If you are progressing through the tasks, you should have no trouble
completing them. You must pass Test 2 to pass the unit, but there are opportunities
to re-sit if you really miss something important, or to fix the test when you get it
close enough.

We promise that there will not be trick questions, there will be plenty of time, and
that the practice tests provided will be very close to the real test. Our goal is to
validate that you have achieved the required understanding to pass.

                                    Page 12 of 14
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P1 Learning Plan

Furthermore, your tutors will do live demonstrations of practice questions during
the seminars. Attendance to seminars is absolutely key, as students who attend
seminars regularly often find Test 1 and Test 2 quite manageable.

                                    Page 13 of 14
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P1 Learning Plan

How to Succeed in SIT102:

Attend seminars: The seminars provide a great environment to engage with the
unit, clarify difficulties with your tutors and peers, and accelerate your progress.
Students who attend seminars regularly find the OnTrack tasks easier to
complete, stay up-to-date, and generally find the unit quite manageable.
Students who miss seminars tend to take much longer to complete OnTrack tasks,
find them more difficult to complete, and find themselves to be less
knowledgeable about key topics. Each year ~25% of students fail the unit ­ the
majority of these are students who never (or rarely) engaged with their tutors.

Engage and be involved: successful students are those that ask their tutors
questions, are active on the SIT102 Teams channel, and reach out for help when
they need. You'll learn a lot from these interactions, so please make yourself
known to your tutors and classmates.

Stay up-to-date with your tasks: we have OnTrack tasks due each week, so it
helps to complete tasks in a timely fashion so you don't have a large collection of
tasks to complete all at once. During seminars can be a great time to complete
your OnTrack tasks.

Have fun! Programming can seem challenging at first, but it is important to know
that you are not the only one who feels that way. The majority of SIT102 students
are brand new to programming (and also new to University). Please know that we
have lots of support available (seminars, SIT102 Teams channel, tutors, the Unit
Chair) so if you are ever unsure, please don't be embarrassed to reach out for
assistance. You may also consider joining some excellent Deakin Clubs to meet
fellow students and find a welcoming community.

                                    Page 14 of 14
