SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P8 Structuring Data

Structuring Data

The pace of the journey is picking up, as you are starting to build knowledge, skills,
and attitudes that position you for success in computing. With the ability to
organise code, the next leg of your journey sets you on a path to start organising
your program's data. With these new tools you can start to build larger data
entities that match the things you want to see within your digital reality.
The next steps build on your current understanding of the primitive (base) data
types (e.g. int, char, bool etc). These primitive types serve you well, however only
focus on representing single values thus have their limitations. New concepts
introduce the ability to create custom data types, allowing you to create more
complex representations of objects by representing groups or sets of values
instead.
Key aspects include:

    · The current primitive data types form the foundation for all other data
         types - even custom data types.

    · How enums (enumerators) and structs (structures) enable the representing
         of multiple values as a single object.

    · Modelling of your data will be a key process - learn how to use these
         concepts to represent the entities (things) that your program is working
         with.

Show us that you can:

    · Create structs to organise your data into meaningful entities in C++.
    · Create enumerations to capture discrete values where appropriate.
    · Use your custom types as local variables, parameters, and function return

         types.
                                                                                                  Page 1 of 3
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P8 Structuring Data

· Focus on the programming concepts for managing data and how they help
    you model and work with larger entities.

· Do this task without using anything we haven't covered yet.
· Capture your learning in the Learning Journey section. Include evidence

    (screenshots) of your progress, and your thoughts on what you
    accomplished, what challenges you faced, and what you found interesting.
· Provide sincere reflections in the Reflection section. Don't just tell us what
    you did, tell us what you learned. Reflections that are brief or shallow will
    not be accepted.

Complete the following:

         1. Download and open the template from OnTrack.
         2. Read through the Introduction section and Overview section from

             Chapter 2: Structuring Data.
         3. Complete the Guided Tour from Chapter 2: Structuring Data.
         4. Complete one of the Test Your Knowledge activities.
         5. You should have enough to submit now, but if you want to deepen your

             understanding have a look at the concepts in the In Depth section.
         6. Complete your submission ­ complete the summary and related

             activities in the template.
         7. Upload to OnTrack and engage with feedback to get this complete!

Available Resources

We have many resources to assist in your learning journey ­ if you are ever unsure
then please reach out to us, we are always happy to help.

    · The SIT102 Teams channel ­ an active learning resource with weekly
         announcements from the Unit Chair, and regular discussions/assistance
         from the SIT102 teaching team and students.

                                                                                                  Page 2 of 3
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P8 Structuring Data

    · Seminars ­ you can attend both on-campus and online sessions, and join
         as many as you like each week. Your tutors will provide demonstrations and
         assistance to help guide your learning.

    · HelpHubs ­ there are sessions hosted nearly everyday, both on-campus
         and online providing one-on-one assistance from a tutor. Please join as
         many as you like.

    · PASS sessions ­ running every week, these sessions are run like a study
         group, hosted by a past SIT102 student.

For more information about the above resources please speak to your tutor or
visit the SIT102 Teams channel.

                                    Page 3 of 3
