SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P3 Sequence and Data

Sequence and Data

Start to see programs as instructions that get the computer to achieve your goals.
Your programs will include sequences of instructions that perform actions and
work with data.
Key aspects include:

    À Learn to build programs that involve sequence and data - including method
         calls, variables, and assignment statements.

Show us that you can:

    À Create small programs with:
             o A sequence of instructions that achieve something
             o Variables
             o Assignment statements
             o Method calls, with a range of arguments

    À Correctly use programming terminology to explain your code.
    À Do this task without using any concepts we haven't covered yet.
    À Capture your learning in the Learning Journey section. Include evidence

         (screenshots) of your progress, and your thoughts on what you
         accomplished, what challenges you faced, and what you found interesting.
    À Provide sincere reflections in the Reflection section. Don't just tell us what
         you did, tell us what you learned. Reflections that are brief or shallow will
         not be accepted.

Complete the following:

         1. Download and open the template from OnTrack.
         2. Read Chapter 0: Introducing Instructions.
         3. From the Sequence and Data chapter review the Overview section,

             then progress through the Guided Tour.

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 3
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P3 Sequence and Data
Read actively!

Actively read these chapters. Build and run the sample programs, change it to test
your understanding. Write in your Learning Journey and take screenshots to
capture your understanding as it develops.

         4. When ready, complete one of the Test Your Knowledge activities from
             the Activities section.

         5. You should have enough to submit now, but if you want to deepen your
             understanding have a look at the concepts in the In Depth section.

         6. Complete your submission ¡ complete the summary and related
             activities in the template.

         7. Upload to OnTrack and engage with feedback to get this complete!
Tip: Initiate feedback

When you submit your work, you can add a comment to your tutor. It is a great
idea to use this to ask for specific feedback on your work. This can help make sure
you receive the most effective feedback to support your learning.

Available Resources

We have many resources to assist in your learning journey ¡ if you are ever unsure
then please reach out to us, we are always happy to help.

    À The SIT102 Teams channel ¡ an active learning resource with weekly
         announcements from the Unit Chair, and regular discussions/assistance
         from the SIT102 teaching team and students.

    À Seminars ¡ you can attend both on-campus and online sessions, and join
         as many as you like each week. Your tutors will provide demonstrations and
         assistance to help guide your learning.

    À HelpHubs ¡ there are sessions hosted nearly everyday, both on-campus
         and online providing one-on-one assistance from a tutor. Please join as
         many as you like.

                                    Page 2 of 3
SIT102 Introduction to Programming       P3 Sequence and Data

À PASS sessions ¡ running every week, these sessions are run like a study

group, hosted by a past SIT102 student.

For more information about the above resources please speak to your tutor or

visit the SIT102 Teams channel.

                                         Page 3 of 3
