SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P9 Working with Multiples

Working with Multiples

So far, our programs have been working with single values. This task will teach
how to handle and manipulate collections of values by storing them in arrays. Such
collections will greatly expand the amount of data you can work with, and the
complexity of your programs. Mastering working with multiples will bring together
your understanding of control flow, with new data structures that make working
with lots of data a breeze. Make sure not to take any shortcuts, as this is another
challenging but important set of skills and knowledge to attain.

Key aspects include:

    · Working with collections of values of any data type - whether primitive data
         types (e.g. int, char, bool, etc) or your custom data types using structs.

    · Combine collections with other learned programming concepts such as For
         Loops to create advanced algorithms to utilise and manipulate many data
         at once.

Show us that you can:

    · Declare and use arrays in variables, functions, and parameters in C++.
    · Iterate over the elements (values) in an array to interact with each as an

         individual value.
    · Use hand execution to illustrate how code works with an array, with the

         proper formatting as demonstrated in the Field Guide.
    · Focus on persistence as a professional characteristic ­ helping you work

         through things when they don't work as expected at the start.
    · Do this task without using anything we haven't covered yet.
    · Capture your learning in the Learning Journey section. Include evidence

         (screenshots) of your progress, and your thoughts on what you
         accomplished, what challenges you faced, and what you found interesting.

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 3
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P9 Working with Multiples

· Provide sincere reflections in the Reflection section. Don't just tell us what
    you did, tell us what you learned. Reflections that are brief or shallow will
    not be accepted.

Complete the following:

1. Download and open the template from OnTrack.
2. Read through the Introduction section and Overview section from Chapter 4:

    Indirect Access to understand how references work. Note: completion of the
    Guided Tour from Chapter 4: Indirect Access is optional.
3. Read through the Overview section from Chapter 5: Working with Multiples.
4. Complete the Guided Tour from Chapter 5: Working with Multiples.
5. Complete one of the Test Your Knowledge activities.
6. You should have enough to submit now, but if you want to deepen your
    understanding have a look at the concepts in the In Depth section. For higher
    grade tasks you need to be able to combine the use of arrays and structs, and
    link these with your functions.
7. Complete your submission ­ complete the summary and related activities in
    the template.
8. Upload to OnTrack and engage with feedback to get this complete!

Available Resources

We have many resources to assist in your learning journey ­ if you are ever unsure
then please reach out to us, we are always happy to help.

    · The SIT102 Teams channel ­ an active learning resource with weekly
         announcements from the Unit Chair, and regular discussions/assistance
         from the SIT102 teaching team and students.

                                    Page 2 of 3
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P9 Working with Multiples

    · Seminars ­ you can attend both on-campus and online sessions, and join
         as many as you like each week. Your tutors will provide demonstrations and
         assistance to help guide your learning.

    · HelpHubs ­ there are sessions hosted nearly everyday, both on-campus
         and online providing one-on-one assistance from a tutor. Please join as
         many as you like.

    · PASS sessions ­ running every week, these sessions are run like a study
         group, hosted by a past SIT102 student.

For more information about the above resources please speak to your tutor or
visit the SIT102 Teams channel.

                                    Page 3 of 3
