SIT102 Introduction to Programming  T2 Test 2

Test 2

Programming is a foundational skill in computing, and it is important to
understand this well before progressing to other units. The tests provide a means
of you demonstrating you have achieved the required knowledge and skills.
Tip

Do not worry overly about the tests. If you have achieved the learning goals from
the previous pass tasks you will have no trouble in completing this test. Your
seminar tutors will also provide live demonstrations of the practice test questions
to help you prepare, so be sure to attend.

Test 2:

    À will take place in Week 9 (with a second chance in Week 10, and a final
         chance in Week 11),

    À is a hurdle ¡ you must pass the test to pass the unit,
    À will cover concepts from P2-P9,
    À is closed book,
    À you will have up to 90 minutes to complete it,
    À answers must be in the Hand Execution format taught here.

Complete the following:

1. Sit the test in Week 9 (with a second chance in Week 10,
    and a final chance in Week 11)

Campus Students:
    À Must attend their campus at the scheduled time, to complete the test on
         paper. Look at the Class Timetables and see `Assessment 1' for the day,
         time, and room number, and ensure you have enrolled into a session
                                                                                                  Page 1 of 4
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  T2 Test 2

         via the STAR system. You will hand your completed test to your
         supervising tutor.
    À Remember to bring your student ID card and writing material to the test.
Online Students:
    À Your test will be available online for completion at home. You will have a
         48-hour window to complete it, starting on the same day as the Campus-
         based students. Information on how to access the test will be emailed
         closer to the test date.
    À You can complete it on paper (then take a scan/photo), or on your
         computer (with a drawing/writing program).

    À After your test is considered Complete, you are required to attend a short
         interview with a tutor (conducted via Teams). Interviews will be
         conducted over Weeks 10, 11 and 12 of the trimester. Details on exactly
         when these occur will be emailed to you closer to the date.

2. Engage with Feedback

You will receive feedback via task T2 on OnTrack. The tests were designed to allow
students to demonstrate they have learned the key SIT102 concepts. You will
receive either:

    À Complete: You have demonstrated competency with all tested concepts;
         well done! You do not need to sit this test again. Focus on your remaining
         tasks.

    À Fix and Resubmit: Great effort; you are close to complete. You must
         attend your next seminar to receive your test back. There, you will have
         a chance to fix mistakes, and hand it back to your tutor for re-assessment
         to have it marked Complete.

                                    Page 2 of 4
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  T2 Test 2

À Redo: Your answers indicate that you need to revise part of the unit and
    attempt the test again. You will have a chance to resit the test again in week
    10, and one last chance in week 11. Failure to complete the test within this
    timeframe may result in your inability to pass the unit.

         Tip
         If you need to redo the test, make sure to go back and revise the tasks
         associated with the area where issues were identified. You should discuss
         this with your tutor and make use of the various supports available to help
         you learn in the unit.

3. Frequently Asked Questions

Do I need to submit something for task T2 on OnTrack, and what does the
start date and due date mean?
There is nothing to submit for task T2. Instead, task T2 is where you will get
feedback on the outcome of your test (e.g. Complete, Resubmit or Redo), and
additional comments from your assessor.
You can ignore the start date and due date of Task T2 ¡ most important is to
ensure that you know what date(s) Test 2 has been scheduled for (per our
instructions above), and complete the test on that date.

What if I fail or miss Test 2?
You will have the chance to resit the test in Week 10, and one more time in Week
11. Follow the instructions above sections to know when/where the resit occurs.
Failure to complete Test 2 to a satisfactory level means that you may not be
eligible to receive a passing grade for the unit.

                                                                                                  Page 3 of 4
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  T2 Test 2

What if I cannot complete the test on the day/time scheduled?
The assessment requirements were clearly communicated to all students in the
SIT102 Handbook, the SIT102 Unit Guide, and by your tutors at the beginning of
the trimester. Expected is that all students can make appropriate arrangements
to be available.

I am a Campus student, but can I take the Online test instead?
No, if you are enrolled as a Campus student, you must complete the test on
campus.

Must I get 100% on the test to pass it?
Not necessarily. We want to see that you understand the concepts well. If you
make minor mistakes but overall the answer is correct and understandable, it is
likely we will accept it.

                                    Page 4 of 4
