SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P4 Control Flow

Control Flow

The adventure really starts here. This leg of the journey may be challenging, but
you need to make sure you really understand these concepts and how to use
them. Control flow is the central mechanism in programs when viewed as
instructions. A solid understanding of the concepts and how to apply them will
position you to speed through the next few modules.
Learn to use control flow concepts and tools to create programs that respond to
inputs and events. This will greatly enhance what you are capable of achieving.
You should see this as a major milestone.
Key aspects include:

    · Seeing how boolean logic is used to control.
    · Remembering that everything is still just a sequence, and that loops and

         branches simply adjust which action is performed next.
    · Learn to apply sequence, selection (branching), and repetition (loops) to

         build small programs

Show us that you can:

    · Create small programs with:
             o Boolean expressions that include comparisons and logical operators
                  to form expressions that test given conditions
             o Branches using if and switch/case statements
             o Loops using while, do while, and for statements

    · Correctly use programming terminology to explain your code.
    · Do this task without using any concepts we haven't covered yet.

                                    Page 1 of 4
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P4 Control Flow

    · Capture your learning in the Learning Journey section. Include evidence
         (screenshots) of your progress, and your thoughts on what you
         accomplished, what challenges you faced, and what you found interesting.

    · Provide sincere reflections in the Reflection section. Don't just tell us what
         you did, tell us what you learned. Reflections that are brief or shallow will
         not be accepted.

Tip

This is a big and important topic! You will need to dedicate some time to this, and
you need to make sure that you really understand these ideas as they are central
to everything in programming. Ensure you make use of all the support available
to help you learn to use these new tools.

                                    Page 2 of 4
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P4 Control Flow

Complete the following:

         1. Download and open the template from OnTrack.

         2. Work your way through the Overview, Guided Tour, and In Depth

             sections from Chapter 3: Control Flow of the V1 Programmers Guide.

         3. Demonstrate how the following two small programming snippets run

             using the Hand Execution process as described in the In Depth section.

             Do this on paper with a pencil. Capture a photo of your workings.

                    using static System.Console;
                    using static System.Convert;

                    int target;

                    Write("Count to: ");
                    target = ToInt32(ReadLine()); // User enters 5

                    int i = 0;

                    while (i < target)
                    {

                           WriteLine(i + 1);
                           i++;
                    }

                    using static System.Console;
                    using static System.Convert;

                    int i;

                    for (i = 0; i < 8; i++)
                    {

                           if (i > 0 && i % 3 == 0)
                           {

                                  i++;
                                  continue;
                           }

                           WriteLine(i);
                    }

         4. Complete one of the Test Your Knowledge activities from the Control

             Flow chapter of the Programmers Field Guide.

         5. You should have enough to submit now, but if you want to deepen your

             understanding have a look at Chapter 2: Communicating Syntax.

                                                                                                  Page 3 of 4
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P4 Control Flow

Tip: A bit stuck? Be sure to reach out!

Your tutors are programming experts and are there to help. Be sure to reach out
to them during the seminar, at the HelpHub, or ask a question on the SIT102
Teams channel.

         6. Complete your submission ­ complete the summary and related
             activities in the template.

         7. Upload to OnTrack and engage with feedback to get this complete!

Available Resources

We have many resources to assist in your learning journey ­ if you are ever unsure
then please reach out to us, we are always happy to help.

    · The SIT102 Teams channel ­ an active learning resource with weekly
         announcements from the Unit Chair, and regular discussions/assistance
         from the SIT102 teaching team and students.

    · Seminars ­ you can attend both on-campus and online sessions, and join
         as many as you like each week. Your tutors will provide demonstrations and
         assistance to help guide your learning.

    · HelpHubs ­ there are sessions hosted nearly everyday, both on-campus
         and online providing one-on-one assistance from a tutor. Please join as
         many as you like.

    · PASS sessions ­ running every week, these sessions are run like a study
         group, hosted by a past SIT102 student.

For more information about the above resources please speak to your tutor or
visit the SIT102 Teams channel.

                                    Page 4 of 4
