SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P6 C / C++

C / C++

The first part of our journey is now behind us, with you having developed a strong
understanding of control flow and how to use it to create programs. Before you
can start our next journey proper, you need to retool and switch programming
languages to explore organising our code and data. This sounds challenging, but
compared to what you have achieved you may be surprised to find how easy it
can be to switch languages.

See how what you have learnt so far applies in C/C++, and learn to get started with
it by rebuilding some of the programs you have created so far.

Key aspects include:

    Ě Seeing that most things are the same - and realising the concepts are more
         important than the syntax.

    Ě Picking up the new tool chain needed to build and run these programs.

Show us that you can:

    Ě Compile and run C/C++ programs, including linking with external libraries.
    Ě Code programs using C/C++ that include:

             o Variable declarations, assignment statements, and method calls.
             o Boolean expressions that use comparisons and logical operators.
             o Branches using if and switch case.
             o Repetition using while, do while, and for loops.
    Ě Focus on how programming concepts are similar across languages.
    Ě Develop adaptability - you will use many tools in a computing career.
    Ě Do this task without using anything we haven't covered yet.

                                    Page 1 of 3
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P6 C / C++

Ě Capture your learning in the Learning Journey section. Include evidence
    (screenshots) of your progress, and your thoughts on what you
    accomplished, what challenges you faced, and what you found interesting.

Ě Provide sincere reflections in the Reflection section. Don't just tell us what
    you did, tell us what you learned. Reflections that are brief or shallow will
    not be accepted.

Complete the following:

         1. Download and open the template from OnTrack.
         2. Read the Introducing Code Organisation section from Part 2: Organised

             Code.
         3. Read through the Overview section from Chapter 1: Starting C/C++
         4. Complete the Guided Tour section from Chapter 1: Starting C/C++.
         5. Ensure you have familiarised yourself with the C++ build and run

             process. Convert one of your previously completed C# Test Your
             Knowledge activities (from a previously completed task) into C++ code.
         6. Complete your submission ş complete the summary and related
             activities in the template.
         7. Upload to OnTrack and engage with feedback to get this complete!

Available Resources

We have many resources to assist in your learning journey ş if you are ever unsure
then please reach out to us, we are always happy to help.

    Ě The SIT102 Teams channel ş an active learning resource with weekly
         announcements from the Unit Chair, and regular discussions/assistance
         from the SIT102 teaching team and students.

                                    Page 2 of 3
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P6 C / C++

    Ě Seminars ş you can attend both on-campus and online sessions, and join
         as many as you like each week. Your tutors will provide demonstrations and
         assistance to help guide your learning.

    Ě HelpHubs ş there are sessions hosted nearly everyday, both on-campus
         and online providing one-on-one assistance from a tutor. Please join as
         many as you like.

    Ě PASS sessions ş running every week, these sessions are run like a study
         group, hosted by a past SIT102 student.

For more information about the above resources please speak to your tutor or
visit the SIT102 Teams channel.

                                    Page 3 of 3
