SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P7 Structuring Code

Structuring Code

This next part of the journey focuses on code as a way of structuring your
instructions and data to better organise the logic and your thoughts. These first
steps will introduce you to functions and procedures, and how you can use these
to contain your logic into small chunks - so managing control flow is constrained
to these smaller building blocks from which you can then construct larger
programs.

Key aspects include:

    À Seeing how functions and procedure let you compartmentalise your code -
         so you never need to create large and complex control flow logic. Instead,
         you build many small functions and procedures that each perform part of
         the solution you are creating.

    À Make sure to pay attention to parameters, these are essential to allowing
         you to give your functions and procedures the data they need to perform
         their tasks.

Show us that you can:

    À Create functions and procedures in C++ to break programming problems
         down into smaller, reusable parts.

    À Use parameters and local variables to manage data.
    À Return data from functions.
    À Focus on using functions and procedures to structure your code, with

         parameters to accept input data, without global variables.
    À Do this task without using anything we haven't covered yet.
    À Capture your learning in the Learning Journey section. Include evidence

         (screenshots) of your progress, and your thoughts on what you
         accomplished, what challenges you faced, and what you found interesting.

                                                                                                  Page 1 of 3
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P7 Structuring Code

À Provide sincere reflections in the Reflection section. Don't just tell us what
    you did, tell us what you learned. Reflections that are brief or shallow will
    not be accepted.

Complete the following:

1. Download and open the template from OnTrack.
2. Read through the Introduction section and Overview section from Chapter 2:

    Structuring Code.
3. Complete the Guided Tour from Chapter 2: Structuring Code.
4. Complete one of the Test Your Knowledge activities.
5. You should have enough to submit now, but if you want to deepen your

    understanding have a look at the concepts in the In Depth section ¡
    understanding functions, procedures, and parameters in depth will be
    important as you start to build larger programs.
6. Complete your submission ¡ complete the summary and related activities in
    the template.
7. Upload to OnTrack and engage with feedback to get this complete!

Available Resources

We have many resources to assist in your learning journey ¡ if you are ever unsure
then please reach out to us, we are always happy to help.

    À The SIT102 Teams channel ¡ an active learning resource with weekly
         announcements from the Unit Chair, and regular discussions/assistance
         from the SIT102 teaching team and students.

    À Seminars ¡ you can attend both on-campus and online sessions, and join
         as many as you like each week. Your tutors will provide demonstrations and
         assistance to help guide your learning.

                                    Page 2 of 3
SIT102 Introduction to Programming  P7 Structuring Code

    À HelpHubs ¡ there are sessions hosted nearly everyday, both on-campus
         and online providing one-on-one assistance from a tutor. Please join as
         many as you like.

    À PASS sessions ¡ running every week, these sessions are run like a study
         group, hosted by a past SIT102 student.

For more information about the above resources please speak to your tutor or
visit the SIT102 Teams channel.

                                    Page 3 of 3
